
Scene 1:

*Person getting bullied*

Narrator:  Are you tired of having no escape from the same people bullying you every day?

*person  sitting in class*

Narrator: Tired of listening to that same boring professor’s lecture?


(These scenes in black and white)

Scene 2:

We have found the ultimate solution for you!
Now, with Invisiball, you will be able to make yourself, or anyone around you, disappear instantly!

No more getting bullied by those same horrible people

*scene is guy disappearing*

No more sitting in class with that professor who makes the whole class fall asleep

*scene of person in classroom*

You can use this product for getting out of any uncomfortable situation, or  just to help you out.

Ever wanted to know what your crush thought about you?

Now you can do all of this with (insert product name)

*scene with girl spying on her crush*


This product comes in three different time durations
-you can enjoy being invisible for up to 30 minutes, up to 1 hour, or up to 2 hours.
This makes the product versatile and great for any occasion.

Scene 3:
Testimonies

“Ever since I used (product name), I have felt invincible. I accidentally walked into the girls bathroom once, I was so embarrassed. I used the 30 minute (product name) to avoid further embarrassment. I used it so so quickly that I do not even think that anyone saw me!”

“I have been a magician for years and I always wanted to figure out how to take my show to the next level, With (name here) I was able to really make my disappearing and floating object acts come alive.”

“This product is amazing. I couldn’t do without (name). Last weekend, my friend dragged me to a party, and I just did not want to be there. One quick (name) later, and I was out of there faster than Bilbo Baggins at the beginning of the first Lord of the Rings movie.”



A product with chemical mirror imaging technology like this would usually sell for as high as 49.95, but call now and you will get a container of 15 smoke bombs for just 19.95 plus shipping and handling! For this low price you will receive 5 Invisiballs for each time duration!

Also, if you call now we will add on our high technology and high fashion sixth-sense sunglasses at no additional cost! Want to know who else is using Invisiball? Putting on these glasses will allow you to see whoever is invisible around you! How’s that for a twist?

Call now at 555-555-9320 to receive this great offer of 15 invisiballs for a low price of $19.95. You will also receive a pair of our Sixth Sense Sunglasses. All you have to do is pay for shipping and handling. You must be 18 years or older for this unbeatable offer. Get it now while supplies last.





