A few nights ago, I came across a family of deer on my way back to Notre Dame from St. Mary’s at midnight. Because of the late hour, I was the only person walking on the road. The only visible colors were the blackness of the night and the orange glow of the streetlights. In the crisp October air and thick silence, I felt particularly out of place. I lacked a certain delicacy that the native animals possessed, quickly darting around unnoticed. The clopping of my footsteps grew increasingly loud to me and my presence must have been exceedingly obvious to the more savvy inhabitants of the path. There was an almost imperceptible equilibrium in the air that I seemed to upset with each step.

  I saw them while I was still a while away. A mother and her three fawns were grazing on the border of the road and the woods. The mother, clearly leading them, had taken a timid step onto the concrete. A paved road must seem so foreign to an animal born and raised on a surface of dirt, grass, and leaves. The family must have felt particularly exposed without the thick cover of trees and other foliage. I can’t know for certain why they were making this journey onto the unfamiliar surface, but I imagine curiosity played a big part. The fawns were close to the mother’s side, staring into the road and seeming to contemplate the stark contrast between it and their natural habitat.

  Being an all-important human being, I would be expected to feel that these pesky animals were infringing upon my right of way. This road belongs to humans, and animals should stay away. However, the deer possessed a natural grace. They seemed coherent in this picture, making me the intruder. Maybe it was the silent loneliness of my walk and the fact that they outnumbered me that made me feel out of place. Maybe it was the innocence in the eye of the mother and her children. Perhaps if it were light out and I were walking with my friends the encounter would have gone differently. “Look, that’s so cute,” one of the girls would say while the guys quickly had to decide whether to agree or erect a macho façade of nonchalance. They would have scurried away and the incident would be over. However, on this still and isolated night, our meeting took on more significance.

  As I locked eyes with the family, they abruptly stopped their advance. I merely slowed mine, most likely because I, as a human, would not think to stop for a lower life form. I did slow, however, because I could sense a significance of this encounter. They stared at me for a few steps, getting ready for what we would label “fight or flight” reaction. In this moment, I think their response was more complex than our scientists would readily admit. I felt that “fight or flight” conflict myself, even considering what I would do if the deer refused to move. Coming from suburban Long Island, I had had my instincts thoroughly washed away by smothering parents. In this sense, the deer had the upper hand. Perhaps she thought I, likewise, had the upper hand on her.

 After I passed an unspoken acceptable distance from them, they began taking one step back for each of my steps forward. The mother, more familiar with the ways of humans, backed off first, indicating somehow for her children to follow. Their retreat was quick, but calm. It seemed to be more out of custom than of fear. I have met people more akin to the animals who can speak their unspoken language and convey that they mean no harm. I am not even conversant in this body language. My clumsy advance must have seemed like incoherent rambling of a foreigner to them. I meant to say that I was only passing by, that I admired them, and that they could go about their business. They must have heard that I was in a hurry and that they had better get out of the way. Perhaps they even knew what I wanted to convey, but did not trust me. Two of her fawns followed closely behind. The third one reminded me of my little cousin. It was slightly bolder than the rest of the family and lingered for a few seconds observing me. Not wanting to lose the others, it eventually followed.

As the family retreated back into the woods, which I have no means of viewing, I questioned why the path and the forest must be so isolated. Back home, it would seem clear that animals are an unpredictable nuisance and that a good road has sidewalks on either side, and that not even humans can walk it except in designated areas. Living in those restrictions removes one’s ability to communicate with the animals that roam freely and gracefully, but unseen by humans, in the dense cover of brush. I have learned to abandon instincts in place of arbitrary mannerisms established by humans for mere convenience. Perhaps if the roads of my hometown had no sidewalks, dirt and grass would not feel so foreign. Perhaps I would not seek only to cross in designated areas, but roam freely and gracefully. Perhaps I would even be capable of not upsetting the delicate equilibrium of the brisk October air. If I were more in-tune with nature, perhaps the deer would not have fled and I could have seen what so often goes unseen by city-dwellers: the innocence, curiosity, and harmlessness conveyed in the eyes of a mother deer and her children. In this rare crossing of paths, I stole a quick glimpse, but both parties were soon yanked back into their proper place, with no connection having been fostered. Maybe then, it is the human’s natural instinct to remove oneself from nature and to seek comfort and anonymity in a city comprised of many faces, each no different from the last.
