  Have you ever been in an awkward or dangerous situation that you need to get out of fast? All too often, people make a fool of themselves and are stuck there to deal with the embarrassment of the situation. If you have found yourself in one of these situations, then you could use Invisiball!

Our product is called Invisiball. This product is designed to make sure that no one has to be stuck in an uncomfortable situation, whether it is dangerous or awkward. This product can make a person invisible in any situation, but fully able to hear and see what is going on in his/her surroundings. This product works for both males and females and in any type of environment. It is very simple to use as well. Whenever you get stuck in that awkward moment that you feel like you cannot get out of, simply pull out your Invisiball, point it towards your body, and throw it right under your feet. Instantly, you will become invisible to whoever you are trying to avoid. After the Invisiball wears off, the product user will slowly start to become visible again.  It’s extremely simple. Our product was inspired by all of our past experiences. There are always times when we wish we could be invisible and not have to deal with the tasks at hand.
This product was designed with all types of people in mind, whether you are in a situation at home, work, school, or anywhere else, this product is a guaranteed success or your money will be refunded to you. The product comes in three different types. When designing this product we understood that people will want to use the product for varying amounts of time. Because of this, it will come in three varieties. The quickest Invisiball will last 30 minutes, the normal- length type will last an hour, and there will also be an extended time version of the product that will last two hours long.

  This product, our Invisiball, appeals to a very broad audience. Many people, of all different types of social and economic classes, could benefit from a product like this. There is, of course, a minimal age of 18 years or older to call and order this product, as we would not want young children to be running about with it, even though it is scientifically tested and certified as one of the safest products out there. Life presents us with so many reasons for wanting to use invisiball. We all have those moments in our lives, maybe even quite frequently, where we say “Man, I wish I wasn’t here right now.” Moments like those are quite universal in nature, experienced by all. Therefore, this is a product that can be useful to everybody. One particular phase of life that this product can be particularly useful are those plentiful awkward moments experienced by many in those “best years of your life:” college. All those college students who might be at a party that they have no desire to be at, now have a quick solution to getting out of there as fast as possible without anyone noticing. There also might be a kid who is getting picked on by an intimidating bully and his crew. One quick throw of the Invisiball, and he would be invisible to the naked eye, and have the ability to get out of the situation safe and sound. There are also many other situations in which this product can be useful. Police could use the Invisiball to safely arrest dangerous criminals, you could use it to find out what your crush actually thinks about you, or you could even use it to play pranks on your friends. You could even use it to make other people invisible. Are you getting tired of that professor that you just cannot stand? Or maybe your crazy ex will not leave you alone? Just throw a single Invisiball and he or she will vanish instantly. Age is definitely not an excluding factor, though, for those wanting to use this product. Say your wife takes you to a dinner party hosted by someone you just cannot stand. Our product offers you simple, safe, and inconspicuous solution. The Invisiball has a unique and universal appeal.

While this product can definitely be targeted towards a younger audience, we want this product to be as available, accessible, and as far-reaching as possible, so no one is excluded from experiencing Invisiball. And for those worried about the health implications, the usage of this product has been scientifically proven to not have any detrimental effects on senior citizens or pregnant women. Even the price is meant to allow for maximum availability to the largest target audience possible. The reason that the Invisiball targets this age group is because young adults around this age are more likely than people of other age groups to find themselves in embarrassing or dangerous situations that they would like to get away from. It is perfect for people who happen to find themselves in embarrassing situations that they need to get out of, people who find themselves amid an intense argument that they do not want to become a part of, or for people who accidentally stumble into a dangerous situation. The Invisiball addresses the problem of needing to disappear found in these and many more situations, providing an easy solution at an affordable cost to the consumer. The Invisiball provides a unique solution to these problems which cannot be reproduced by any other product, by allowing the user to escape it by actually turning themselves invisible. This is what will make the Invisiball easy to market to our customers.

  One limitation of this product is that, because the Invisiball cannot target what is turning invisible, your toss must be very accurate. This does not hamper turning yourself or those near you invisible, but when trying to hit a target at a distance, it can be very difficult to be precise enough. As a result, the chemical emitted from the Invisiball will not cover enough of the target’s body to turn him or her invisible. This could have various results. The target could either become slightly transparent or it could happen that only certain parts of the target person will disappear. Another limitation of this product is that, once used, the Invisiball cannot be refilled. Once it is used, it is useless and the shell must be thrown away. Also, users must be careful to use two Invisiballs at once. This could have several different effects. The first effect is that the target will remain Invisible for a much longer duration. This extended time is very unpredictable and can range anywhere from 2 to 8 hours of being invisible. This usually occurs when two of the same type of Invisiball are used. It is also possible that the Invisiballs counteract each other resulting in the user being completely visible. The final possible result, and the most likely, is that the chemicals of the two Invisiballs will struggle against each other causing the user to awkwardly fade in and out of visibility for very long periods of time. This result could also take effect while either of the first two results are occurring which is why it is the most likely of the three to encounter. We do not recommend the use of this product for small children, animals, disabled people, people with chronic diseases, or people who have sensitive skin. We also do not support using this product to escape from law enforcement. We simply want the product to be able to allow an escape for people who encou find no fantastic product out there at this price that can appeal to such a large audience. People will want to buy Invisiball.

  The Invisiball can be bought for the low price of $19.95. For this low price customers will get 15 Invisiball which will include five  of each of the different types of Invisiball. New advances in the field of chemical mirror imaging technology make it possible for this previously  expensive item to be manufactured at a new, low cost. This makes the product more affordable to produce, and therefore able to be sold at a low cost to consumers, making the Invisiball available to the common person.

  Also, for no extra charge, we will also send our customers a pair of Sixth Sense Sunglasses. These sunglasses will allow the wearer to see anyone who is currently invisible due to them using an Invisiball. The glasses take advantage of using the inverse of the optometric mirroring properties of the Invisiball and allow the user to see Invisiball users as if they were not even using it. This way, no Invisiball user can have a total unfair advantage on any unassuming person. The best part about this product, besides its ease-of-use and unique technology, among other attributes, is that it is totally free with the purchase of a container of Invisiballs!

  This product can be easily marketed to young adults around 18 to 26 years old, all over the country. nter basic uncomfortable situations throughout their daily lives. We also do not recommend using this product in crowds because then you could make someone disappear by accident.

  The vanishing power, given by the Invisiball, is unprecedented and provides its users with limitless possibilities. You can become invisible just like Harry Potter did with his invisibility cloak, or like Bilbo Baggins does when he slips on the one ring. You could also pull off disappearing acts that would put the best magicians to shame. You could even go as the invisible man on Halloween. The Invisiball is a sure success.
